[Music]
well here's a big hint if your own phone
number calls you don't pick up you know
scammers keep coming up with new and
more creative schemes to steal your
money or valuable data however this new
scam has the potential to outsmart all
other types of fraud the Better Business
Bureau has already called it the most
dangerous phone scam out there so if
your own phone number calls you never
take the call with all the super
advanced technologies we have nowadays
it's not a problem for scammers to
create a fraudulent number that looks
like your own they just need to copy
your digits with the help of a special
computer program and voila what's really
alarming is that even if you have call
blocking setup on your cell phone
scammers are still able to get around it
but more often than not they don't even
have to do that curiosity is human
nature and lots of people who suffered
at the hands of these criminals admit
that they wanted to find out how it was
even possible that their own phone
number was calling them so regrettably
they answered the call so what's in it
for these criminals scammers are skilled
psychologists and master orders it's
true they can read you like a book and
use their silver tongue to talk you into
giving them information about your phone
account and even your Social Security
and credit card numbers and if that's
not what they want then they're in it to
insert fraudulent charges on your phone
bill
what cover story do scammers use
typically the bad guys calling you from
your own number introduce themselves as
representatives from your mobile
provider they start by informing you
that somebody has hacked your account
then they ask you to verify a few things
this sounds so trustworthy and people
are already freaked out at the thought
of their account being hacked that they
willingly give up their personal data
and this is all based on what victim
of this crime if said Donnie Claxton got
a dangerous call on a weeknight he
checked his cell phone and was amazed to
see that it was him calling himself
puzzled and probably intrigued he picked
up with mr. Claxton's case the caller
was silent for nine seconds and then
hung up but a woman from South Carolina
that was curious enough to take the call
as well actually had a conversation with
the scammers they introduced themselves
saying that they were calling from the
phone company and the reason for their
call was that her account had been
compromised they wanted to warn her
about this and get her personal data in
order to verify and stop the hack a man
from Texas was told by a recorded voice
that his account had been hacked through
AT&T to recover it the man had to
provide the last four digits of his
social security number and if you keep
digging you'll find tons of more people
who have been cheated in the same way so
how can you avoid becoming a victim of
this fraud first and foremost don't
answer the phone there's no way that you
are calling yourself authorities also
recommend signing up for the National Do
Not Call Registry and if you get
unwanted calls you can report them to
the Federal Trade Commission the Federal
Communications Commission advises people
to always verify callers claiming to be
representatives of government agencies
and other organizations to do that you
can simply hang up and call the number
given on the company's official website
also be extremely cautious about the
information you're about to give anyone
calling it in some scams that were more
popular in the past it was enough for
you to say the word yes to give
criminals an opportunity to use your
recorded voice in their frauds that's
why it's absolutely vital to take all
the necessary steps to protect your
personal information and your money from
falling into the wrong hands
this ploy is just one of many phone
scams that criminals keep coming up with
here are several others that are still
pretty popular scam involving your local
area code people tend to automatically
trust calls from their local area code
more because it seems like the caller is
from nearby businesses or neighbors
research shows that not many people feel
comfortable blocking local phone numbers
they actually prefer to avoid this by
all means repeated call scams scammers
are able to program special autodialers
so that they'll make repeated calls to
your phone but disconnect after just one
ring of course after some time you'll
get so irritated that you'll want to
call them back and give them a piece of
your mind but before you dial that
number in a fit of rage think twice if
the area code is 664 876 or to 6/8 it's
coming from the Caribbean and you'll be
charged for every minute of the call
another possible outcome is that you'll
be transferred a bunch of times racking
up your bill sky-high the can you hear
me scam
well this scheme isn't new but people
keep falling for it a sweet sounding
lady calls you up and starts fussing
with her headset you're breaking up I
can't hear you hello can you hear me for
goodness sakes do not say yes your voice
will be used for fraudulent purposes
that are likely to leave you without a
substantial chunk of your savings if you
realize that you're about to become a
victim of a phone scam first of all stay
calm if you're panicked you forget about
caution by the way that's why criminals
typically insist that their call is
urgent immediately get suspicious if the
caller tries to get hold of your
personal data and by all means avoid
talking to strangers on the phone if
possible at least check the caller ID
every time you get a call and if you
don't recognize it let it go to
voicemail be attentive if you have
picked up listen for pauses after each
time you say something it's most likely
a robo call so hang up if you hear an
automated message
do not follow its instructions or press
one or any other button this will lead
to even more robo calls between you and
me I'm just waiting for the day when
during such a scam call you can press a
special button which sends an electrical
charge over the line zaps the scammer
just enough to hurt a little well maybe
more than a little fries his phone and
since the local police to his address
with a warrant for his or her arrest
well I can dream can't I
hey have you ever gotten any suspicious
calls how did you handle it tell us in
the comments below and don't forget to
click subscribe to stay on the bright
side of life I don't